# Notes on the tentative defition of crypto-tokens

1.1	The purpose of this description is to help delineate those crypto-tokens that satisfy the criteria described in Chapter 5 of our consultation paper from other qualifying data objects. We refer you to our consultation paper which can be downloaded at https://www.lawcom.gov.uk/project/digital-assets/.

1.2	We do not intend this description to be either exhaustive or determinative. Nor are we suggesting that this description should be translated to a statutory form. Instead, we use this description as a reference point to inform our use of the term crypto-token in the remaining chapters of our consultation paper. More widely, we intend the description to be a starting point for discussion with respondents and market participants, and we welcome and encourage comments and input on the description. For these purposes, the description has also been uploaded to GitHub, where respondents can comment on the description directly.[^1] 

1.3	Our starting point is to assume that any crypto-token to which this description is applied is already capable of satisfying the criteria described in Chapter 5 of our consultation paper. Put another way, this description should only be applied to crypto-tokens provided that the crypto-token is composed of data represented in an electronic medium, exists independently from persons, exists independently from the legal system and is rivalrous.[^2]   

1.4	Other things that do not satisfy the criteria set out in Chapter 5 of our consultation paper would therefore not fall within the scope of this description. Examples include digital files, amounts credited to an electronic bank account and an electronic representation of a security or bond (unless in the form of a crypto-token). Indeed, even a non-qualifying crypto-token — a crypto-token that does not exhibit the requisite degree of independence of persons and independence of the legal system, rivalrousness and excludability — would fall outside the scope of this description. 

1.5	This description uses the term crypto-token. This term describes only a data structure instantiated within a crypto-token system, such that the particular, individuated instance of a data structure takes on a specific, individual function by virtue of the operation of the socio-technical system in which it exists.[^3]  The term crypto-token used in this description therefore intentionally does not consider or encompass any of the ways in which things and other rights external to a crypto-token system might be linked to or associated with the crypto-token itself. We discuss how these links might be constituted and the consequences for this at law in more detail in Chapter 14 of our consultation paper.

## Notes on the description 

1.6	The description of crypto-token refers to a particular individuated data structure. That particular, individuated data structure must have certain characteristics and functionality, set out within the sub-paragraphs of the description.[^4] Those characteristics and functionality exist by virtue of the application of the protocol rules of the relevant crypto-token system (which will include cryptographic authentication by computational means). Those characteristics and functionality must also satisfy the indicia described in Chapter 5 of our consultation paper. Together, this distinguishes a particular, individuated data structure from non-rivalrous and non-excludable information.

1.7	The description recognises that a principal operative function of a crypto-token is that it uniquely can perform an operation (or an action) such as authenticating a message or transaction within the crypto-token system.[^5]  Importantly, a crypto-token is also structured so that the performance of any such operation (or action) can be regulated to exclude others from performing that same operation. The most obvious example of this operative function is the ability to authenticate a new transaction. In general, this authenticated transaction will be recognised as valid by other participants in the crypto-token system and eventually will be recorded as a state change (or state changes) to the distributed ledger(s) or structured record(s) of the relevant crypto-token system.[^6] We use the terms state and change of state to refer to the canonical and chronological order of transactional events as recorded within the transaction-based ledger or record of a crypto-token system.[^7]

1.8	The description therefore recognises that a crypto-token is a data object that has both, and is a composite of, technical and social dimensions — crypto-tokens exist as instantiations in actively operated socio-technical systems. In that sense, they can be regarded ultimately as a human or social construct that is used to define and delineate a “state transition” or “state change” power to a structured record that humans treat as socially important. The power allows its controller  to authenticate a message  to perform an operation in respect of that particular crypto-token. That might include authenticating an operation to effect a state transition of the distributed ledger or structured record in accordance with the protocol rules. That power is embodied by the functionality given to a specific instance of a crypto-token within a particular crypto-token system.

1.9	The description of crypto-token refers to the data structure being recorded “using one or more distributed ledgers or structured records”. This is intended to reflect the increasing importance of some “Layer 2” implementations of crypto-tokens. Those implementations might separate the execution, settlement and data availability elements of a crypto-token and record or distribute those elements across different distributed ledgers or structured records (sometimes referred to as “layers”). See also Appendix 5.  

1.10	The functionality described within limb (2) of the description of crypto-token refers to “at any one time”. This reflects the importance of a method (either decentralised or through a centralised participant) of establishing a canonical and chronological order of transactional events in transaction-based ledger or record systems. We do not think that the fact that, in some decentralised systems, certain transactions may take time to be reflected on the relevant distributed ledger or structured record is problematic in this respect. However, when considering Layer 2 implementations of crypto-token systems that utilise payment or state channels, there is the potential for a dislocation between the form of a crypto-token as represented by Layer 2 transactional activity and its settlement as represented by an update to the state of the base layer (Layer 1). The dislocation could be temporary if a particular Layer 2 transaction is subsequently settled on the underlying Layer 1 at a later point in time upon (for example) channel closure, or in a sense, permanent if a transaction is “overwritten” by subsequent transaction activity between channel activity. For this reason, we suggest that the references to “at any one time” and “capable” must be read together to recognise that a crypto-token as represented by Layer 2 transactional activity may not necessarily be coincident in time with its settlement as represented by an update to the state of the Layer 1 base layer.  

1.11	The sub-concepts of “Crypto-token System” and “Protocol Rules” are left intentionally broad, so as to capture a wide range of crypto-tokens, including crypto-tokens based on private or permissioned crypto-token systems and crypto-tokens based on public, permissionless systems. 

1.12	A user of this description could however use the terms “Crypto-token System” and “Protocol Rules” to identify one or more particular crypto-token systems should they wish to be more specific or to limit the scope of the description. For example, should a user wish to specify the Ethereum network, the sub-concepts of “Crypto-token System” could be updated to “means the Ethereum mainnet (networkID:1, chainID:1)”, the sub-concept of “Protocol Rules” could be updated to “means the Official Go Ethereum client available at https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum”, and an additional sub-concept of “the Ethereum Blockchain” could be added within limb (1) of the description of “Crypto-token”, to specify that the relevant blockchain was “the version of the distributed ledger commonly known as “Ethereum” that at least a majority of the nodes running the Protocol Rules recognise as canonical as at that time”. A carve-out for any recent or previous forks of the Ethereum blockchain could also be added. 

1.13	This description does not distinguish between different “taxonomies” or “uses” of crypto-tokens. For example, it does not distinguish between a crypto-token which is merely used as a record (such as a record of a university degree, or within a land register) and a crypto-token which is used as a medium of exchange for goods and/or services. Nor does it exclude any crypto-tokens which might also be “linked” to other things (including property rights or other rights) external to the crypto-token system. We expect that instances of the following types of crypto-tokens could fall within this description:

<ol>
  <li>protocol-level-defined implementations of crypto-tokens which represent a notional unit of account (such as bitcoin or ether);</li>
  <li>smart-contract based implementations of crypto-tokens that are primarily intended to represent and be used as “fungible” tokens (such as issuances based on the Ethereum ERC-20 and Solana SPL token standards); and</li>
  <li>smart-contract based implementations of crypto-tokens that are primarily intended to represent and be used as specific, “non-fungible” objects (such as issuances based on the Ethereum ERC-721 and Tezos FA2 token standards).</li>
</ol>

[^1]: Indeed, in turn, some of the structuring and terms in this description draw heavily on concepts used in G Shapiro, Simple Code Deference Agreement (2020), which was made openly available on GitHub at: [https://github.com/lex-node/SCoDA-Simple-Code-Deference-Agreement-/blob/master/DAO%20Charter%20with%20Qualified%20Code%20Deference.md](https://github.com/lex-node/SCoDA-Simple-Code-Deference-Agreement-/blob/master/DAO%20Charter%20with%20Qualified%20Code%20Deference.md)

[^2]: As we discuss in Chapter 5 of our consultation paper, we also expect that most crypto-tokens are likely to be divestible on transfer, although we do not treat this as a gateway criterion. 

[^3]: We are grateful to Peter Hunn for the conception and lengthy discussions in relation to the core principle of data instantiation within a crypto-token system, and related discussions on concepts including how crypto-tokens achieve rivalrousness by design within crypto-token systems. We also understand these and other related concepts and issues will be discussed in a forthcoming paper: P Hunn, “Only Binary? Atoms and Bits as Objects of Property” (2022) (forthcoming).

[^4]: Although the definition refers to an individuated data structure, we discuss how fungible crypto-tokens can be held in commingled unallocated accounts or pools on behalf of multiple parties in Chapter 16 of our consultation paper. 

[^5]: See J Allen, "Cryptoassets in private law" in I Chiu and G Deipenbrock, Routledge Handbook of Financial Technology and Law (1st ed 2021), n 14, discussing the use of the term “token”: “[In computer science] a ‘token’ is a programming object that represents the ability to perform an action in a software system. To this extent, ‘token’ is entirely appropriate”. 

[^6]: Subject to the transaction being included in a valid block within the crypto-token system and the subsequent recorded state change becoming probabilistically irreversible. See also Chapter 12 n 1062 of our consultation paper. 

[^7]: In the Ethereum white paper, Vitalik Buterin refers to Bitcoin as a “state transition system”: “From a technical standpoint, the ledger of a cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin can be thought of as a state transition system, where there is a "state" consisting of the ownership status of all existing bitcoins and a "state transition function" that takes a state and a transaction and outputs a new state which is the result”. He goes on to describe the state of Ethereum as follows: “In Ethereum, the state is made up of objects called "accounts", with each account having a 20-byte address and state transitions being direct transfers of value and information between accounts”: [https://ethereum.org/en/whitepaper/#ethereum-state-transition-function](https://ethereum.org/en/whitepaper/#ethereum-state-transition-function).
