This short-form description of a crypto-token has been prepared and published as part of the Law Commission of England and Wales' consultation on digital assets law reform. We refer you to our consultation paper which can be downloaded at https://www.lawcom.gov.uk/project/digital-assets/. In particular, please note the "How we consult" section, which is reproduced below. We may use any responses received on GitHub in accordance with these terms. When responding, please note that GitHub is a public repository, and any comments or responses will be made available in accordance with the GitHub functionality and terms.

## About the Law Commission

The Law Commission was set up by section 1 of the Law Commissions Act 1965 for the purpose of promoting the reform of the law. 

**The Law Commissioners are**: 
<ul>
  <li>The Rt Hon Lord Justice Green, Chair,</li> 
  <li>Professor Sarah Green,</li> 
  <li>Professor Nicholas Hopkins,</li> 
  <li>Professor Penney Lewis, and</li> 
  <li>Nicholas Paines QC.</li> 
</ul>

The Chief Executive is Phillip Golding. 

## About this consultation

**Topic of this consultation**: Proposals for law reform in respect of certain digital assets as objects of property rights. 

**Geographical Scope**: This consultation applies to the law of England and Wales. 

**Duration of the consultation**: We invite responses from 27 July to 4 November 2022. 

**Responses to the consultation may be submitted**: 

<ul>
<li>Online, using the form at: {___}. Where possible, it would be helpful if this form was used. 
  
  Alternatively, comments may be sent: By email to digitalassets@lawcommission.gov.uk</li>

<li>By post to Commercial and Common Law Team, Law Commission, 1st Floor, Tower, 52 Queen Anne’s Gate, London, SW1H 9AG.</li> 
</ul>

If you send your comments by post, it would be helpful if, whenever possible, you could also send them by email.

**Availability of materials**: The call for evidence and interim update paper which preceded this consultation paper, and this consultation paper, are available on our website at https://www.lawcom.gov.uk/project/digital-assets/. We are committed to providing accessible publications. If you require this consultation paper to be made available in a different format please email digitalassets@lawcommission.gov.uk or call {020 3334 0200}. 

**After the consultation**: We will analyse the responses received and undertake further stakeholder engagement as appropriate. {We will publish a report together with our final recommendations for law reform.} It will be for {}. 

**Consultation Principles**: The Law Commission follows the Consultation Principles set out by the Cabinet Office, which provide guidance on type and scale of consultation, duration, timing, accessibility and transparency. The Principles are available on the Cabinet Office website at: https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/consultation-principles-guidance. 

**Information provided to the Law Commission**: We aim to be transparent in our decision making, and to explain the basis on which we have reached conclusions. We may publish or disclose information you provide in response to Law Commission papers, including personal information. For example, we may publish an extract of your response in Law Commission publications, or publish the response itself. We may also share responses with Government. Additionally, we may be required to disclose the information, such as in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act 2000. We will process your personal data in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation. Consultation responses are most effective where we are able to report which consultees responded to us, and what they said. You may want your response to be anonymous, for example because it contains sensitive information about you or your family, or because you are worried about other people knowing what you have said to us. If you ask us to treat your response anonymously, we may refer to what you say in your response, but will not reveal that the information came from you. Alternatively, if you consider that it is necessary for all or some of the information that you provide to be treated as confidential and so neither published nor disclosed, please contact us before sending it. Please limit the confidential material to the minimum, clearly identify it and explain why you want it to be confidential. We cannot guarantee that confidentiality can be maintained in all circumstances and an automatic disclaimer generated by your IT system will not be regarded as binding on the Law Commission. We list those who responded to our consultations in our reports. If you provide a confidential response your name will appear in that list. If your response is anonymous we will not include your name in the list unless you have given us permission to do so. Further information about how we handle data is available at: https://www.lawcom.gov.uk/document/handling-data/. Any queries about the contents of this Privacy Notice can be directed to: enquiries@lawcommission.gov.uk.
